# Modules Loader

Amalgam is equipped with a Modules Loader system designed to support the integration of custom features without altering core gamebase files. It enables modular development by isolating code into self-contained components, reducing the risk of conflicts and improving maintainability.

## Adding Modules

Modules should be placed in the following directory:
```BASH
📂amalgam/gamemode/modules/
```

Modules can be created as either a single file or a folder, depending on the complexity and need for additional scripts.

### Module Rules & Conventions

**Single-File Module**
* The module’s UniqueID is defined by the file name
* You may name it however you like — no prefix is required

**Folder-Based Module**
* The module’s UniqueID is defined by the folder name
* The folder **must contain** a shared file named `sh_module.lua` as its entry point
* Additional files (e.g., `cl_*.lua`, `sv_*.lua`, etc.) can be included from within `sh_module.lua` as needed

These rules define how modules are registered and loaded upon server initialization

Every module—regardless of format—must begin with the following structure:
```lua
MODULE.Name = "Name of your module"
MODULE.Description = "Description of your module"
MODULE.Author = "Name of the module creator"
```
This ensures proper indexing, debugging, and administrative clarity during runtime

## Code Execution

The **Modules Loader** supports hook definitions that are safely scoped to each individual module

Hooks are registered using the following method:
```lua
function MODULE:PlayerSpawn()
	-- your code here
end
```
By defining hooks this way, they are automatically assigned unique internal identifiers, preventing conflicts with other modules or core gamebase hooks. This allows multiple modules to use the same hook name ``(e.g., PlayerSpawn)`` independently without overwriting one another.

Every module can safely define the same hooks without risk of interference.

⚠️Note:
Defining hooks using the default `GM:` method is **strongly discouraged**, as it can overwrite core gamebase functionality and lead to unexpected behavior or breakage.

You are free to define custom hooks however you prefer—whether under Amalgam, GM, or as local functions within your module—so long as they do not conflict with existing base hooks.