# Persistence Entities & Doors

Amalgam supports persistent entities and doors that automatically spawn on server startup, with their data stored locally in your server data folder.  
This system ensures that configured objects remain consistent across server restarts, eliminating the need for manual placement or reconfiguration.

## Entities

Any custom entity you want to persist must include the following variable:

```lua
ENT.CanPersist = true
```

This tells Amalgam that the entity should be saved and restored with the map.  
It does not matter whether your entity is defined in the main gamemode, a module, or an addon—**this variable must be set.**

To persist an entity in-game:

- Open the **SWEPs** tab
- Select **[Dev] Persistence Tool** under the **Amalgam** category
- Spawn and position your entity as needed
- Follow the on-screen instructions to presist/unpresist

Enitites data is stored per-map in:
```BASH
📂garrysmod/data/amalgam/maps/map_name.txt
```

## Doors

Door data—such as title, price, and ownability—can be configured and saved similarly.

To edit door data:

- Equip the **[Dev] Doors Saver** SWEP.
- Look at the desired door and press **LMB** to open the editor.
- Fill in the door title, price, and toggle its ownability.
- Press **Save** to store the data.

To remove a door from persistence:

- Aim at the door and press **RMB** while holding the **Doors Saver** SWEP.

Doors data is stored in a separate per-map file:
```BASH
📂garrysmod/data/amalgam/maps/map_name_doors.txt
```


