# Configuration and Logging

Amalgam provides integrated logging systems to record various framework or player actions, storing logs locally for direct access through log files or via the terminal interface.
Additionally, Amalgam features a configurable system, allowing you to set fixed configuration values through your code. These values can also be customized dynamically via the terminal interface.

## Logs

To use the logging system, insert the following function into any part of your code where you want to create a log entry, following the pattern below:
```lua
Amalgam.InsertLog(Category, Log)
```

* **Category** – For better organization, logs are saved separately per category (e.g., `admin`, `chatbox`, `system`, etc.).
* **Log** – The raw entry you want to save. It always stores unprocessed data, so if you want specific formatting, you’ll need to structure it manually.

Logs are saved in the following path:
```BASH
📂data/amalgam/logs/anycategory.txt
```
You can access them manually or use the following command in the Terminal:
```BASH
$dev_getlogs [Category] [Date:DD/MM/YYYY]
```
**Important**
* This command can only be used by a RootUser, but you can change the permissions in the `sh_logs.lua` file located in the core directory.
* When entering a date, you must include a leading 0 for single-digit numbers.

## Config

To use the configuration system, you must first create a custom config entry using the following command and pattern:
```lua
Amalgam.RegisterConfig(ConfigName, DataType, Description)
```

* Config Name – Used for display in the terminal and as the internal identifier.
* Data Type – Defines the type of data the config will store (e.g., `string`, `number`, `bool`, etc.).
* Description - A description shown in the terminal to help users understand the purpose of the config.

To retrieve a config, insert the following function anywhere in your code where you need it:
```lua
Amalgam.GetConfig(ConfigName)
```

You can use the default file for custom configs, `sh_config.lua`, located in the main gamemode folder.  
If you are using a custom module, add your configs to the appropriate file instead.

Configs are initialized with static default values but can be modified to have custom values through the terminal.  
The game will always use the default value unless a custom one has been set.

You can either change a value directly by editing the core files (hardcoding), or by using the following terminal command:

To modify a config and create a custom value, use the following command:
```bash
$dev_setconfig [ConfigName] [NewValue]
```

You can also list all existing configs, which will display their identifier, description, and both default and custom values:
```bash
$dev_listconfigs
```
Custom config values are stored locally in:
```BASH
📂data/amalgam/config_overrides.txt
```
